.Dd February 1, 2023
.Dt SUP 1
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh NAME
.Nm sup
.Nd do <whatever SCM> update
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl eqr
.Op Ar path ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a tool to just
.Qq update
a working directory using whatever SCM commands appropriate for the
directory.  Updating is performed for each given path, or the current
directory if none is given.
.Pp
.Nm
currently supports CVS
.Pq Sq Nm cvs ,
Subversion
.Pq Sq Nm svn ,
Git
.Pq So Nm git Sc Ns Pf / So Nm git-svn Sc ,
Mercurial
.Pq Sq Nm hg ,
and Bazaar
.Pq Sq Nm bzr .
.Pp
If called as
.Sq Nm vcs ,
the name of SCM detected is printed for each given path.
.Sh OPTIONS
The following command line arguments are supported:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "-e" -compact
.It Fl e
Show errors only, suppressing output of successful updates.
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width "-q" -compact
.It Fl q
Suppress warnings like
.Dq VCS unknown .
.Pp
.It Fl r
Update directories recursively according to a file named
.Pa .sup
which should list the names of subdirectories to process.  Empty lines
and lines starting with
.Sq \#
are ignored, lines starting with
.Sq \-
or
.Sq \&!
are regarded as negative patterns, and those starting with
.Sq \+
or otherwise, are regarded as positive patterns.  Surrounding space
characters are trimmed, and shell wildcards are available.
.Pp
In recursion, symbolic links are ignored for security reasons.
.El
.Sh BUGS
.Bl -dash -compact
.It
The command name obviously collides with the legendary tool
.Qq SUP
.Pq Software Upgrade Protocol .
.Pp
.It
.Nm
calls
.Sq rebase
in updating a Git working directory instead of
.Sq merge
and there is no way to configure that.
.Pp
.It
There is no configuration available as of yet.
.El
.Sh AUTHOR
.An Akinori MUSHA Aq knu@iDaemons.org
